So you've learned the theory about machine learning.
Now let's put into practice with a decision tree exercise.
In this exercise, we're going to put our project into practice, which will allow us to design a machine
learning model.
This model will analyze a database, and from that it will be able to predict the behavior of eventual
new data.
So how are we going to work in this lesson?
You're going to download a file that I'm going to leave for you to download together with this lesson.
It is this data frame that has about 715 records that correspond to the passengers that traveled on
the fateful voyage of the Titanic.
Download it and save it to your drive.
This file belongs to a challenge that is quite well known among students of data science.
Hey, you can go to the official site from where we got it, which is about how to design a decision
tree which can evaluate according to the data of the people who survived or not, that that voyage in
order to identify within the characteristics of those people, which were the factors that most influenced
them to survive or not.
And the idea of doing this is that based on what the machine learns by analyzing this information,
it can identify in advance what would happen to eventual new passengers.
So what you're going to find in this data frame is about six columns.
The first one say is whether that person survived or not and reports it with a zero if they didn't survive
or a one if they did.
We have this with numbers so we can do mathematical calculations with this.
Then we have which class each passenger belongs to.
One corresponds to first class, two to second class, and three to third class.
So remember this the people in third class were the people with the lowest socioeconomic status.
Then we have gender zero for men and one for women.
Finally, the age, which is obviously expressed by a number of years, if that person had siblings
or spouses within the trip, we can see this with a number reflecting the number.
Siblings or spouses indicates horizontal relationships, and if those people were accompanied by parents
or children, i.e. vertical links, we have the number expressed in numbers.
So as I told you, you are going to download this data frame and we're going to incorporate it into
your disk.
You're going to import it into the notebook so that we can work from there and that we can design a
model that will allow us to draw a conclusions.
And we're going to do it together, of course, because there's a lot to learn here.
So if you want to work with another data frame, which has different data and you make other kinds of
inquiries, of course you can do it and it will work if you adapt it to the characteristics of each
data frame.
But let's let's start by doing what needs to be done, which is to import the libraries we need, which
in this case are not a few.
We're going to first import pandas like PD and we're going to import NumPy as NP.
We're also going to import matt plot lib dot pi plot and we're going to do it as PLT.
These are the ones we already know.
We're also going to import a new one which we haven't seen so far, which is C Bon, which is also a
library that allows us to make graphs to represent graphs in the notebooks.
We're going to import this one as sense, and you'll finally get to know it in a moment.
Now we're going to go to the ones that are specifically for machine learning.
And as we said in the introduction, it's the CI Kit Learn library, which has a lot of elements.
And we're going to start with that.
We're going to say that from S k learn tree.
We're going to import an element called decision tree classifier.
And from SRC Learn metric, we're going to import several elements import accuracy score and we're going
to bring in confusion matrix.
Going to know what this is and finally to plot confusion matrix.
Finally from SK learn we are also going to import TRE and with this we have everything we need.
So we run this cell and we already have all the elements at our disposal.
We're also going to do something that we already know how to do, which is to link the drive disc with
this notebook so that we can use the resources that are there.
There we have the data frame, which I assume you've already downloaded and saved your own disk.
So from Google Dot CoLab, lets import drive and then we're going to say down here the magic phrase
drive mount and we're going to put in brackets slash, content slash, drive.
We execute this line and here comes this authorization request.
So I go to my account, I click on allow and our disk has been linked.
Now we're going to read this file that's inside our disk.
We save it into a variable and we're going to call it def for data frame and we're going to say that
is equal to an object pandas read c csv and in the brackets we put this link we copy and paste it.
This is the address.
So we execute it and it's supposed to be already downloaded inside this variable def.
Let's see the first five rows to make sure it's all right.
We put df dot head and run it.
Here we have the first five passengers of which only three have survived.
Then we have the data class, gender, age, and if it had brothers, children, etc. Well, this is
our data frame.
We can now work with it.
And as we saw in the introduction, in order to be able to analyze our information, we're going to
need to separate what our data frame contains.
On the other hand, we're going to put in the matrix x all the data from class to parents and children,
and in another variable the variable Y only survivor in order to be separately the predictor data and
the values to predict.
That's what we're going to do now.
So we're going to store in the variable X, but it's going to be a capital X this time to represent
that it contains all the lowercase x of our data frame, and we're going to set it to be equal to d
f, which is the object we already have with all the data.
But applying the drop method and what we're going to take out of here is Survivor, which is the first
of the columns.
We don't want Survivor to be with our predictor data.
And the second parameter of the drop method is to report which access survivor corresponds to.
If it is a zero, it means it's a row, and if it's a one, it means it's a column.
In our case, Survivor is a column.
So we put one.
Then we're going to store in the variable Y to the column survivor, which is the one we've left out.
We do it as simple as DF Survivor and we've got it saved.
We run this cell and our data is now stored in these two separate variables.
Well, now let's visualize how our X has turned out.
For that we put only X in capital letters, dot head, and here we see the first five lines of this
data frame that does not have the column survivor.
And if we visualize y head, we also see five rows but only of the column survivor.
The first column has the indexes and the second one says zero or one, depending on whether it's survived
or not.
So we are now ready to create our tree.
We're going to create a variable called My Tree, which is the same as this this method that has already
been imported, which is decision tree classifier.
And in its brackets, we're going to put two parameters that for now you won't be able to fully understand.
But when we see what a tree looks like, you will be able to do not only understand it but also modify
it.
The first parameter is max depth.
We're going to set the depth of our tree to two levels for now.
This doesn't tell you much, but you'll see what I mean.
And the second parameter is going to be the random state.
This parameter basically sets how much randomness our tree is going to have.
For now, I'm going to set it at 42.
You can play around with this value later.
For now, just note that there is a need to report what the values of the two parameters are going to
be.
Well, I've already executed this cell, but so far nothing has happened.
We don't see any tree anywhere because all we've done so far is to create this object.
Nothing more than that.
So now we're going to start what we can call training the machine so that it can read the data that
exists and understand the correlations that exist between those values and then be prepared to anticipate
things.
So how do we train the machine?
So there's not a lot of signs here.
It's as simple as calling my tree, which is the object we just created, and we apply the fit method.
We're going to pass parameters to it first the X for the matrix of passenger characteristics, and then
why of course, which is the one with the results.
The one that tells us what the destination of each passenger has been.
And that's the variable that in the future we want to be able to predict.
If we run this, we don't see anything new either.
Just this output here that says decision tree classifier with the data I just entered.
So now I suggest you pause the video and read this short text, which explains in detail what has happened
here so far.
Okay, the model is trained, so we are in a position to start making predictions.
That is to say we are in a position to see the relationships between X and Y and to establish which
were the most influential factors for each person to have survived or not.
Now we're going to make the first predictions about our data frame.
We're going to create a variable, a variable that can be called prediction y, which is survival through
my tree predict and in brackets X, this is the first step.
The second step is to compare those predictions with the actual results.
So we're going to be able to see this comparison through a print that says something like accuracy,
colon space, and then accuracy score, which is that method we imported at the beginning of the lesson.
So what do we want to know how accurate our program was when it identified the relationship between
personal characteristics and the survival of each passenger?
We can say that our program did its own guessing, and this method will compare its results with the
actual data and tell us what percentage it got right.
The values we need to pass here are going to be prediction Y on the one hand, and then the variable
Y which contains the actual values.
These are the variables the accuracy score is going to compare.
So if we execute, this line informs us with a decimal number that the percentage of accuracy has been.
This value could go from 0 to 1.
So we have obtained a good result.
Of course it is a result that can be improved.
It would be good to get 85 or 90%.
Getting 100% is almost impossible.
But these values can be improved by refining our data frame and improving the way we analyze it.
Now, in order to visualize something entertaining for our eyes, let's create a confusion matrix and
look at that strange word.
The idea is not to confuse us, but on the contrary, to clarify.
But that's the name of it.
Confusion Matrix.
Let's put parameters y, which are the people who survived or not in the real list and the prediction
y which are the people that the machine has predicted if they survived or not?
If we run it, we're going to get this double entry table, which for now is not too clear either.
Here we have some numbers that we are not able to understand, but we will understand them when we make
a graph with this, which is what follows.
And that will make it very clear to us what these numbers are that are matrix as crossed.
So we're going to represent it in a graph, creating a confusion.
Plot to which we have to pass several parameters.
First, the estimate we already have an estimate of created, which is my tree.
Then we have to pass it the capital X, which are the real variables that we have of the people in our
data frame.
The parameter y true refers to the database that contains the true results, not the predicted ones.
So it is y.
And then the other parameters are optional.
None of them are mandatory.
What we're going to do now is give this a color.
We're going to call the C map parameter, which allows us to color map our graph.
We're going to make it equal to PLT dot cm for color map dot blues, which is a type of color map in
blue ranges so that we can visualize the results we get with the color and the value format is going
to be equal to 0.0 f.
This means that they are not going to have decimal numbers.
Now let's run this and we get our first graph which is made up of this same table.
c40 717 and 124 and 166.
But let's see what it's telling us.
On the vertical axis, we have the true label, and on the horizontal axis we have the predicted label
and we have the zero and the one.
So let's try to analyze this table.
In this quadrant, the actual not survivors and the predicted not survivors are crossed.
Here it says there were 407 and it's painted in a very dark blue, which means that the coincidence
is high.
Then in this other quadrant, we have the crossover between the predicted survivors and the real survivors.
It matched in 166 cases.
This gives us a value that is not as obscure as the previous one, but it is quite high.
So these two quadrants which occupy this diagonal.
Show us how accurate our tree has been in predicting who survived or not.
And to make this a bit better, let's normalize this data so that instead of absolute values, we have
percentage values.
So let's copy this same line, because here we really just want to change the format to 0.2.
And we're going to add one more parameter here which is normalized true attention that here true is
with lowercase.
So let's run this and we have the same picture.
But now look how interesting we can see everything in percentages.
There were 96% and 57% matches between the predictions and the actual data.
This shows us how assertive our model can be.
The chances of our model being wrong are quite low, especially for guessing who does not survive.
That is where it's been most successful.
We're going to show what is the tree that our system is used to make decisions and this is actually
what we want to build.
We're going to call PLT with the method figure, which we can give a size with the parameter fig size,
which is equal to a tuple of ten and eight.
Here I set the size in which my tree will be graphically represented in a new line I'm going to call
tree dot plot.
Remember that tree is a CI kit learn object and we can call plot tree, which is going to ask us for
some parameters.
First, the decision tree, which is my tree, and after that it doesn't ask for any mandatory parameter.
The others are optional and I'm going to add what I want the colors of the tree to show.
So I want filled to be equal to true.
This time is with a capital letter.
I also want to see the names of our attributes.
So feature names is going to be equal to x columns.
And with this we can see it, but we only need to make PLT show up with show.
Do you want to see our decision tree?
Here it is being built and here it has arrived.
This is the decision tree that has been created.
And here we are going to understand how our machine has thought.
What was the process it went through to be able to solve each case and determine whether it is a survivor
or not.
First of all, you have to understand that it went through this tree from the top down here are two
levels deep that we set up when we set up the tree.
It has this level and then one more.
It starts here and has established, based on its observations, that gender is divided into two values,
zero and one.
So at first checks if it has a gender less than 0.5, i.e. it's equal.
Zero.
That means it's male to the left.
Go to the cases where it is true.
All of these are men.
And to the right, the cases where they are female.
So now it asks different questions for each case.
Based on the prevalence you have observed during your training for the cases that fell on the left side.
The men.
It asks if age is less than 6.5.
Why did it ask this question?
And why would this particular number?
Because it has identified, according to the cause, the theory of the data frame that the survivors
or not survivors are divided into two groups that are pretty much determined by this age number as a
cutoff.
So here it asks them each case.
Listen.
Are you younger than 6.5 years old?
Those cases that are go to the left again.
True values always go to the left.
And here it determines their chances of survival.
The blue labels belong to the survivors and the orange labels to the non survivors.
So who survived the most?
On the male side, the most survivors are children.
Under six and a half years of age, men over six and a half have a lower chance of survival.
And our decision tree applies a non survivor label to these people.
Then if the people were women, those on the right, the tree observed that what most determine the
fate of these people was not age but class.
It has identified that those who traveled in first or second class have a better chance of survival.
We can even see from this intensity of the blue that women in first class are more likely to survive
than men under six and a half years of age.
Our system can be wrong, of course, but here it tells us how likely it is to get it wrong or right.
This Gini number is the level of impurity that this label has.
The lower this number is, the more likely it is to get it right, because the less impurities, the
fewer mistakes it is made.
We see that the most pure label, because it has the lowest Gini number, is this one that says first
and second class women are more survivors than the others, and it is the label that is most likely
to be right.
Now, let's see what happens if we give my tree three levels deep instead of two, we run it and then
we run everything that follows so that the following cells are updated to this change.
Here we run my tree again and see how it works with three levels of depth.
After dividing the cases by gender, it divides again the males by age with the same limit and the females
by class.
In the case of boys, after classifying them by age, it divides the children according to whether or
not they have brothers or partners, and finds that those who do have brothers or partners have survived
longer than those who do not.
In both cases, the Gini is very low, so these conclusions are quite reliable in the case of men over
six and a half.
It has divided them according to class and so it has made conclusions according to all these classifications
for each case.
You can look at this tree in detail to try and understand the reasoning of this tree for the particular
data frame.
I think this says a lot to keep playing with and I recommend you try different parameters not only randomness
but also depth and others so that you can identify how our decision tree was working.
This way you can identify how it builds its decisions, or which presentation mode is the one with the
best suits your needs.
If we want to look at this in a different way, let's go down a little further.
And while we're at it, I'll ask you to read all of this, because I'm going to explain quite well and
very precisely how this tree works.
So now we're going to graph the importance of each of the categories we have age, gender, etc., to
make a graph that shows us the importance of the categories.
Let's first see how to create the two variables the X and the Y of this graph.
The x variable is going to be the relevance and it is going to be equal to my tree.
Feature importance.
This is going to be the x variable.
The Y variable is going to be the columns because there we have the names of the categories and then
we take them from x dot columns.
And here we have our second variable.
Now we're going to create the chart itself with these variables that we already have.
So here comes C, born with its acronym SE and S, which we import to create a chart.
Well, now we're going to use it with the bar plot method, which is going to have columns as parameters
on one side and relevance on the other.
We're going to give it a title through PLT title, which is relevance of each attribute.
And then we're going to show it with PLT Show.
We do that and we run it and here comes our graph, which shows us that the decision tree has identified
that gender is the most determinant factor in a person's survival.
Then class, then age, and so on.
This last category could not be analyzed because it would not be at the fourth level and we have only
analysed up to a third level.
If we were to include it, we can see how far this column goes, but logically it has to be lower than
this one.
What do we have here?
On the Titanic, most of the people who survived were women.
The next distinguishing factor of the survivors was that they were upper class and then that they were
low of age.
So I'm familiar.
Women and children first for an accident with few boats.
You would also have to say rich women and children first.
Well, this was just one example.
You can go much deeper if you like.
So this has been a very intense day, and yet you have barely managed to peek into the fascinating world
of data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
This can really go much deeper, but this would require a specific course on that because it would be
hours and hours and hours and hours and hours.
So what I've shown you today is how we can apply Python to this world.
Then you can go deeper if you're interested.
You already have the basics.
So it's time to rest and prepare yourself so that tomorrow you'll be full of energy and motivation.
Because a project we're all looking for is coming for real.
The Mecca of programming.
Don't miss it.